GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: We bring you the
"NewsHour" tonight
from the Wells Fargo Center in
Philadelphia,
site of the Democratic National
Convention.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Discord and
controversy loom
over this first night. The DNC
chair resigns
over damning leaked e-mails, as
the FBI investigates
the hack, and Bernie Sanders
supporters still
make noise.
GWEN IFILL: She's been in the
public eye for
decades, from first lady of a
small Southern
state to today, on the cusp of
being the first
woman ever nominated by a major
party for
president. Tonight, we begin our
series delving
into the life of Hillary Rodham
Clinton.
REBECCA TRAISTER, Author, "All
The Single
Ladies: Unmarried Women and the
Rise of an
Independent Nation": There was
no clear-cut
path for a woman to just walk
into politics
on her own coming out of law
school. And part
of what Hillary Clinton now says
about that
is, it just didn't really occur
to her or
seem like something that made
sense.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan
in Washington. We will have all
the non-convention
news of the day, including the
final and heartbreaking
report from a rescue boat off
the Libyan coast,
where another desperate journey
ends in tragedy.
DR. ERNA RIJNIERSE, Doctors
Without Borders:
We are not dealing with numbers.
We are talking
about human beings, people like
you, like
me, and everybody has their own
story.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Democratic
National Convention
has opened for business, amid a
new burst
of discord. Calls for unity from
Hillary Clinton's
camp are competing with cries of
foul from
backers of Bernie Sanders.
Correspondent John Yang begins
our coverage
here in Philadelphia.
JOHN YANG: The divisions were on
display right
from the start, when Baltimore
Mayor Sterling
gaveled the convention into
session.
It was to have been Democratic
National Committee
Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz.
But a firestorm
erupted among Sanders supporters
after WikiLeaks
posted DNC e-mails that showed
party officials
criticizing and even mocking the
Sanders campaign
during the primaries.
WOMAN: You don't care about half
the party.
JOHN YANG: This morning, the
Florida congresswoman
got a tumultuous welcome from
her own home
delegation's breakfast.
REP. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ
(D), Florida:
We have so much to do and we
have to make
sure that we move forward in a
unified way.
We know that the voices in this
room that
are standing up and being
disruptive, we know
that is not the Florida we know.
JOHN YANG: Wasserman Schultz had
already announced
her resignation as party
chairman at the end
of the convention. Some Sanders
supporters
say it's not enough.
MAN: We want to actually unite
the party.
All we are asking for is for the
person who
resigned in disgrace to leave
the room.
MAN: I'm very upset because I
think that Bernie,
if not has tied, may have
actually won this
election, if he had been treated
fairly.
JOHN YANG: The embattled
congresswoman is
already facing a tough primary
challenge from
law professor Tim Canova, who's
being backed
by Sanders. Addressing
supporters, Sanders
urged party unity, and got booed
himself.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
We have got to defeat Donald
Trump.
(APPLAUSE)
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: And we have
got to elect
Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine.
(BOOING)
JOHN YANG: He says the e-mail
leaks won't
change his endorsement of
Clinton, it remains
to be seen what is delegates do.
In the streets of Philadelphia,
thousands
of Sanders supporters braved the
blistering
heat to vent their anger.
WOMAN: I'm not a Republican, but
I have to
agree with Ted Cruz. We have to
vote our conscience.
We can't vote the way we're
told.
JOHN YANG: As this convention's
business gets
under way, the DNC has issued a
deep and sincere
policy to Sanders and his
supporters. Sanders
will be the featured speaker
here tonight,
appearing after Michelle Obama
and Senator
Elizabeth Warren.
Clinton campaign officials say
they hope this
uproar will be long forgotten by
week's end
and that the gathering will live
up to its
theme of united together.
Meanwhile, the FBI is
investigating how the
thousands of DNC e-mails found
their way to
WikiLeaks. Clinton's campaign
manager Robby
Mook suggests it's the work of
Russian hackers
hoping to give Republican Donald
Trump a boost.
Trump calls that claim a joke.
He campaigned
today in Roanoke, Virginia.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Hillary Clinton knew what was
going on. She
knew everything that was going
on. She knew
it's a rigged system, that
Bernie Sanders
never had a chance, OK? He never
had a chance.
And if you look at it, look
what's going on.
They're having a lot of people
marching. Now,
a lot of those people are going
to vote for
us.
JOHN YANG: Today, Hillary
Clinton also got
the endorsement of retired U.S.
Marine General
John Allen, once the top U.S.
commander in
Afghanistan.
In a statement, he said: "I have
no doubt
that she is the leader we need
at this time
to keep our country safe, and I
trust her
with that most sacred
responsibility of commander
in chief."
Clinton picked up that theme at
the annual
convention of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
You will never hear me say that
I only listen
to myself on national security.
I will be
ready to get to work on day one.
I take nothing
more seriously than our
security.
JOHN YANG: Trump is to address
the same gathering
tomorrow.
In Philadelphia, the 5,000
delegates have
gathered under tight security
along with an
estimated 45,000 journalists,
activists and
observers.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang in Philadelphia.
GWEN IFILL: Later this
afternoon, Senator
Sanders sent out e-mails and
text messages
urging supporters not to boo or
to stage walkouts.
We head down to the convention
floor now with
NPR's "Weekend Edition Sunday"
host Rachel
Martin, who joins us tonight and
every night
this week as part of our joint
"PBS NewsHour"
and NPR convention coverage.
Rachel, it doesn't seem like
Bernie Sanders'
plea worked.
RACHEL MARTIN: Yes, Gwen, that's
right.
You heard it there in John's
piece. There
is real discord in the
Democratic Party right
now. After Cleveland, after the
Republican
National Convention, Hillary
Clinton and her
campaign had to deal with all
the personal
attacks on her. They were hoping
that this
would be a very different
moment, that this
would be a moment when the
so-called Democratic
family would come together, wrap
her up in
all kinds of love and support.
This is not the case, at least
not thus on
day one of the convention. There
has been
all kind of booing. Every time
someone takes
the stage and says it's time to
come together
and for all of us to get behind
the candidacy
of Hillary Clinton, there is
audible booing
in this auditorium, even when
Bernie supporters
come up and say that.
Ben Jealous, the head of the
NAACP, strong
Bernie Sanders supporter, when
he got up,
he got booed. As John mentioned
in his piece,
Bernie Sanders himself was booed
as a breakfast
earlier today. So, this is going
to be the
challenge of people who come to
the podium
today to try to deliver a
message that makes
those Bernie Sanders voters feel
enfranchised,
feel that they are a part of
this party and
that their issues are being
considered really
at the heart of the Democratic
platform.
We will hear, of course, from
Bernie Sanders
himself, also Elizabeth Warren,
a key leader
in the progressive wing of the
Democratic
Party, and then Michelle Obama,
the first
lady, who has sky-high favorable
ratings.
They're hoping that she can kind
of bring
everyone together in this moment
-- back to
you, Gwen and Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Rachel
Martin down
at the podium, thanks very much.
Let's dig into now to the
details of that
DNC hack we were talking about
and the motivation
behind it.
Hari Sreenivasan is in
Washington with that
story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Judy.
For that, I spoke earlier this
evening with
former U.S. Ambassador to Russia
Michael McFaul.
He's now a professor at Stanford
University.
And Thomas Rid, who joins us via
Skype from
Austria. He is a professor at
King's College
London. He has written
extensively about cyber-attacks
and digital security, most
recently in his
book "The Rise of the Machines."
Gentlemen, thanks for joining
us.
THOMAS RID, King's College
London: Hi.
MICHAEL MCFAUL, Former U.S.
Ambassador to
Russia: Great to be here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thomas, I want
to start
with you.
First, lay out the evidence for
us. We have
heard that this is the Russian
government.
How do we know that this was
Russia? How do
we know that this is a
sophisticated act that
might take a state actor?
THOMAS RID: So, there are two
bits of the
evidence.
The first is, who hacked the
DNC? The second
is, who gave the e-mails to
WikiLeaks? On
the first stage, who hacked the
DNC, imagine
a burglary, and you find the
fingerprints
in a house, and then you find
the same in
another house, and you know who
breached in
one house, but not the other.
That's a bit the situation that
we're having
here. So, we have I.P.
addresses. We have
server infrastructure. We have
SSL certificates,
so quite strong evidence to say
that the DNC
was actually hacked by groups
that are associated
with Russia.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Well, Michael
McFaul, are
you convinced that it was
Russia? Is this
the way that they operate?
MICHAEL MCFAUL: Well, first,
more generally,
Russia has tremendous capability
in this domain.
I worked in the government for
five years.
I witnessed it. I saw it. And we
should all
just say that first. Second, the
reports that
we have, just like Thomas just
said, are very
suggestive that it was two
different Russian
entities. The organization, the
company that
investigated it, CrowdStrike,
was rather definitive
in their analysis that they
published a month
ago, by the way, not just a few
days ago.
And now today, we have many
senior U.S. government
officials also confirming that
they have strong
suspicions that it was these
Russian entities.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mr. Rid, I
want to ask,
is this consistent with previous
hacks that
the Russian government might
have orchestrated?
Does this fall within their
definition of
what is allowed within how they
carry out
cyber-warfare?
THOMAS RID: So, the Russian
government and
intelligence community have been
hacking and
breaching adversary computer
networks for
a very long time, literally for
20 years this
year.
But this is the first time they
have breached
a system and didn't just
exfiltrate, take
out data, but then started
putting those files
into the public domain in order
to affect,
in this case, a Democratic
election campaign.
That's new. That's a
game-changer, I think.
So, stealing, yes, but dumping
into the public
domain, that, we haven't seen
before.
Can I just add a bit of
international perspective
here? We have the same entity
that was caught
in the DNC's networks was also
caught in the
German Parliament, in the
Bundestag, in May
2015. The same entity was caught
in a French
TV station and actually just
interrupted their
programming around the same
time.
It was caught in other European
military networks.
And the attribution was actually
quite strong
in those cases. The German
government has
come out publicly and pointed
the finger at
Russian military intelligence.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Michael
McFaul, why would
Russia want to do this? What are
their interests
in publicizing this intel, if
they were in
fact the ones that acquired it
in the first
place?
MICHAEL MCFAUL: I think there
are two different
kinds of arguments to think
about here.
One is the policy argument.
There's no question
in my mind that the Kremlin,
President Putin
and others have said this rather
clearly,
in my view, that they prefer
Trump to Clinton,
in terms of his policies. He
said things that
they like.
But there is another element
that I don't
think has gotten as much
attention, and that
is that this is also personal.
If you go back
and you look at what Vladimir
Putin and others
said back during their last
electoral round,
they criticized Secretary
Clinton personally
for what they alleged was her
meddling in
their internal affairs.
She criticized a parliamentary
election back
in December 2011. She said it
wasn't free
or fair, or had problems. I
don't remember
the exact statement. And Putin
then said she
incited -- I think the word he
used, gave
the protesters a signal to come
out and protest
against him. So Putin's a guy
that remembers
these things. Maybe that's
another explanation
for why they're seeking this tit
for tat now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I want to pick
on something
you said a little earlier, is
that this sort
of intelligence tradecraft
happens all the
time, that we are probably
participating in
some of it some country
somewhere. Is the
difference then that it's
happening to the
United States?
MICHAEL MCFAUL: No, I would put
it somewhat
differently.
Let's be candid here. Do we
really believe
the DNC is the only organization
in the United
States that the Russians have
hacked? No,
I don't believe that. They have
an active
operation here where they're
constantly seeking
to gather intelligence.
What's unique about this is that
they were
caught and that they were
exposed, and, number
two, the data dump. I mean,
that's the thing
that is really striking to me.
And that it
was released on the day before
the opening
of the Democratic National
Convention, that's
not just coincidence.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thomas Rid?
THOMAS RID: I think it's really
time for the
United States government and the
intelligence
community in the U.S. to pull
its weight and
also draw a line here, because,
indeed, as
Michael McFaul said, this is a
very significant
incident.
A lot of countries in Europe are
looking at
this and thinking, oh, my God,
if they get
away with doing this to the
Americans, what
are going to they do to us?
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Thomas Rid, author
of "Rise of the Machines,"
Michael McFaul,
former ambassador to Russia,
thank you both
for joining us.
MICHAEL MCFAUL: Thank you.
THOMAS RID: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Thanks, Hari for
that conversation.
And we're back to Philadelphia
now, where
the divisions within the
Democratic Party
are on full display tonight here
in the Wells
Fargo Arena.
To discuss all that, we are
joined by two
Minnesota lawmakers with
differing perspectives.
Congressman Keith Ellison was an
early Bernie
Sanders supporter, but he threw
his endorsement
to Hillary Clinton earlier this
month. And
Senator Amy Klobuchar is a
longtime Clinton
backer.
Welcome to you both.
REP. KEITH ELLISON (D),
Minnesota: Thank you
for having us.
GWEN IFILL: I want to start with
you, Congressman
Ellison, because, later tonight,
you will
be introducing Bernie Sanders,
and you have
been in the room with us tonight
and heard
the booing which has greeted
every mention
of Hillary Clinton's name.
Bernie Sanders has said to his
people, calm
down, and it hasn't worked.
REP. KEITH ELLISON: Well, you
know, people's
passions are running high. A lot
of folks
campaigned really hard for
Bernie, and they
put all they had into it.
But, you know, Bernie has said
that we have
fought the good fight. We have
made the platform
as progressive as it ever has
been. We have
made real progress. And we have
really started
a grassroots movement here. And
it's time
to make sure that we come behind
Hillary Clinton
to defeat Donald Trump.
And I personally will say to you
that Hillary
Clinton has done progressive
things and has
a record to stand on, State
Children's Health
Insurance Programs. She helped
get eight million
kids health insurance who didn't
have it.
She started her legal career out
at the Children's
Defense Fund.
GWEN IFILL: Why are they booing,
then?
REP. KEITH ELLISON: Because
they're adjusting.
Because they're coming around.
They have their
own, you know, strong feelings
about it, and
they have invested their heart
and soul into
Bernie's campaign.
But I believe that, with time,
we will be
very, very tight. I think we
already have
substantial unity already.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator
Klobuchar, do you think
Senator Sanders should have
moved earlier
to try to tamp down some of
these feelings
among his supporters, number
one? And, number
two, how much is it hurting
Secretary Clinton
to have the spectacle?
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D),
Minnesota: Well, I
have said from the beginning, I
don't think
it's time. It's more important
in what he
said. And he gave an emphatic
endorsement
of her a few weeks ago.
And he also, as Keith noted, is
going to come
on tonight. Keith is going to be
introducing
him. I can't think of a better
person to introduce
him than Keith Ellison.
And when you look at today, it
was a wild
day, that's true, but look at
the facts here.
The Sanders people were very
concerned about
Debbie Wasserman Schultz. She
stepped down
as chair. She is not even going
to be gaveling
-- didn't gavel the convention.
(CROSSTALK)
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR: You have
Bernie making
his speech tonight. I think,
given everything
that happened, she took
responsibility. She
said -- got us through the 2012
election,
did an incredible job as chair,
but given
everything that's happened, she
decided to
take responsibility for what
happened.
But, to move on, you have got
Bernie speaking
tonight, you have got Elizabeth
Warren, you
have Michelle Obama. Really, the
convention
starts tonight.
GWEN IFILL: It seems like it
takes more than
speakers, however, for true
unity to happen
at a convention. We just spent a
week in Cleveland,
where the theme was a lack of
unity. And how
do you know that is not going to
be -- how
do you prevent that from being
the same theme
in Philadelphia?
REP. KEITH ELLISON: Because I
know that everybody
who supported Bernie Sanders
supported him
because they believe that
college debt is
too high. They believe that the
minimum wage
needs to be increased. They
believe that we
have to take on climate action.
And so how can a real Bernie
Sanders supporter
ever do something that would
help Donald Trump,
who is opposed to all of those
things? Now,
people have -- people -- you
can't always
just turn on a dime. I mean, if
you put everything,
your heart and soul into a
campaign, it might
take you a while to come around
to the realization
that, you know, another person
has won.
But the fact is, I have faith in
these folks.
They are going to come around.
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR: And, if I
could add, Ted
Cruz, think of that speech. How
did he end
up? He ended up without even
endorsing their
candidate for president.
That's not happening tonight
with Bernie Sanders.
And along the points Keith made,
think about
it. Climate change, what does
Donald Trump
say? He says it's made up by the
Chinese.
What does Donald Trump say about
the housing
crisis? He says he wants to bet
on it. What
does he say about free college,
one of the
Bernie Sanders supporters' key
platform item?
He says he wants to do Donald
Trump University.
There is a vast difference.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But we're here in
Philadelphia,
where we're still seeing
dissent, disagreement
along the two sides. And to both
of you, the
fact is, Bernie Sanders
supporters have strong
feelings, strong expectations
that are not
going to be the priority for
Secretary Clinton,
when it comes to how far they
want to go on
the minimum wage, what they want
to do on
the environment.
REP. KEITH ELLISON: Well, there
I have to
say, you know, the platform is
one of the
most progressive platforms we
have ever seen.
And it wouldn't be without the
cooperation
and endorsement of Hillary
Clinton.
I mean, $15 minimum wage, the
federal minimum
wage, is in the platform.
Debt-free college
is in the platform.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But do you expect
that she
is going to make that a
priority?
REP. KEITH ELLISON: I think that
she is going
to make it a big deal. That's
what people
all over the stump are saying.
Look, Hillary Clinton has been
fighting for
these things her whole life.
When has Hillary
Clinton been about anything
other than trying
to make working people have a
better lifestyle?
That's what her whole Senate and
prior career
were about.
So, look, I was a Bernie
supporter. I was
proud to be that. I'm now proud
to support
Hillary Clinton, because I
believe that we
do have shared values, and the
evidence of
it is the platform. The platform
is the most
progressive we have ever seen.
GWEN IFILL: I'm old enough to
remember when
the secret of the sauce for
Democrats was
supposed to be moving to the
middle, moving
and becoming more moderate. I
believe it may
have been Hillary Clinton's
husband who spearheaded
this idea.
So now are we, looking at this
-- what the
pressure, the most progressive
platform ever,
as Keith Ellison puts it, are we
now a Democratic
-- are you now a Democratic
Party moving more
and more to the left?
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR: I think what
Keith is
talking about with this platform
is, times
change, and right now what
people need is,
they need to be able to send
their kids to
college, they need to able to
buy a house.
And the platform simply reflects
where we
are as a country, and the fact
that we have
seen this enormous income
inequality that
both of our candidates have been
talking about
from the beginning that you
don't hear from
the Republican side, where all
you hear from
them is divide, divide, divide.
And Bernie Sanders' speech, you
compare it
to Ted Cruz's at the end of the
day, and you
won't even see the same points
or see the
same ending.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But to come back
to the point
we were all discussing a few
minutes ago,
isn't there an impatience, not
only among
the Bernie Sanders supporters,
but among other
Americans, to see change, and
it's hard for
them to see that with Secretary
Clinton, who's
been on the American political
scene for two
or three decades?
REP. KEITH ELLISON: Sometimes,
this is what
democracy looks like. People's
passions run
strong.
They're dealing with really
tough things all
across America. You're dealing
with low wages.
They can't send their kids to
school. Of course
they're going to come in here
and demand change.
And they're not just going to
sit quiet as
their economic situation at home
is not making
the improvements at the pace
that they need
them to.
So I'm not really too worried
about the level
of enthusiasm and passion that
we see on the
House floor. I think that...
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: The House floor.
REP. KEITH ELLISON: You know
what?
(LAUGHTER)
REP. KEITH ELLISON: You know, I
spend a lot
of time...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're forgiven.
You're forgiven.
(LAUGHTER)
REP. KEITH ELLISON: I spend a
lot of time
there.
But I think that we're going to
see passion.
This is what democracy looks
like. This is
what people do in America. They
get out. They
demonstrate. They let their
voices with heard.
But we will be together.
GWEN IFILL: Final thoughts,
Senator Klobuchar?
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR: Well, just
to your original
point here about some of the
independent voters
as well, I know a lot of people
in our state
who can -- we elected Jesse
Ventura. Right?
They don't want to have a
candidate that feels
temperamentally unsure. They
don't want to
have someone that is going to
bring them into
a war zone again. There's a lot
of things
that bring independent voters to
Hillary Clinton.
And our job this week, without a
doubt, is
to tell that story, to tell the
personal stories
about her and also to tell about
her vision
for America, because we didn't
hear about
that last week. All we heard was
negativity.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we have got
four whole
nights to go. We're just getting
started.
REP. KEITH ELLISON: Getting
JUDY WOODRUFF: Two lawmakers.
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR: You get to
watch us announce
the delegates together.
REP. KEITH ELLISON: There you
go.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Two lawmakers
from Minnesota,
Senator Amy Klobuchar,
Representative Keith
Ellison, thanks to you both.
REP. KEITH ELLISON: Thanks a
lot.
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now: from a
conservative
Goldwater girl, to the
presumptive Democratic
nominee for president.
Tonight, we begin our series
exploring Hillary
Clinton's life, starting with
her entrance
into politics.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
It may be hard to see tonight,
but we are
all standing under a glass
ceiling right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Almost
half-a-century before
Hillary Clinton became the first
American
woman to head up a major party's
presidential
ticket, Hillary Rodham was
making history
as the first ever student to
deliver a commencement
address at Wellesley College in
1969.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: We feel
that, for
too long, our leaders have
viewed politics
as the art of the possible. And
the challenge
now is to practice politics as
the art of
making what appears to be
impossible possible.
REBECCA TRAISTER, Author, "All
The Single
Ladies: Unmarried Women and the
Rise of an
Independent Nation": Buried in
it is the blueprint
for so much of what would come
in the future
for Hillary Clinton that I think
still resonates
today, when she's on the verge
of perhaps
becoming the first woman
president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Author Rebecca
Traister describes
Clinton's college years as a
political transformation,
from her roots in this
conservative Chicago
suburb.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: My
father put everything
he had into a small fabric
printing shop in
Chicago. My mother was out on
her own working
as a house maid at the age of
14. So, I grew
up respecting the dignity of
hard work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Growing up,
Rodham's politics
mirrored those of her father, a
staunch Republican.
As a college freshman, she
served as president
of the Young Republicans Club,
but she graduated
as a liberal Democrat, who would
eventually
work on George McGovern's 1972
presidential
campaign.
REBECCA TRAISTER: She became a
young adult
in this era in which the great
social movements
of the 20th century were totally
reshaping
the nation, the civil rights
movement, the
women's movement, the gay rights
movement.
All of that was fomenting as she
was coming
to political consciousness.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After college
came Yale Law
School and work with the
Children's Defense
Fund, where she knocked on
doors, collecting
data about poor children. It was
the start
of a long string of public
service work, work
that political reporter Indira
Lakshmanan
says motivates Clinton to this
day.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN, Journalist:
She is driven
by certain things that are
important to her,
the welfare of women and
children, health
care for all Americans, income
inequality.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As Hillary was
forming her
ideas about public service, a
fellow law student
named Bill entered the picture.
REBECCA TRAISTER: He was from
Arkansas, and
he wanted to go back and start
his political
career. And so, in the early
'70s, Hillary
Rodham had this choice: Does she
embark on
her own career, or does she go
to Arkansas,
where she doesn't know anybody
except for
her boyfriend, and begin a
career on her own
as a lawyer, but really as a
secondary figure
to this man who is going to
embark on what
she thinks is destined to be a
very serious
and successful career in
politics?
And, of course, we know she
chooses to do
the latter.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In October, 1975,
Hillary Rodham
married Bill Clinton at their
home in Fayetteville,
Arkansas. While Bill followed
his political
ambitions, getting elected
Arkansas' attorney
general, Hillary supported the
family by joining
a Little Rock law firm, where
she became their
first female partner.
REBECCA TRAISTER: There was no
clear-cut path
for a woman to just walk into
politics on
her own coming out of law
school. And part
of what Hillary Clinton now says
about that
is, it just didn't really occur
to her or
seem like something that made
sense, that
she wanted to participate in
making policy,
not as a headliner and not as a
candidate
herself, but as an advocate and
kind of as
a policy wonk.
JUDY WOODRUFF: When Bill was
elected governor
in 1979, Hillary took on an
unofficial, but
active role, says former White
House aide
David Gergen.
DAVID GERGEN, Former White House
Aide: For
a long, long time, even before
she got to
the White House, when the
Clintons were in
Arkansas and she was asked by
her husband
to take the lead on some various
initiatives
there, and she bravely went out
and did that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Indeed, Clinton
appointed his
wife to head up the Arkansas
Education Standards
Committee, where she worked to
reform the
state's public schools, at a
time when Arkansas
was one of the lowest-performing
states in
the country.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Because
we're going
to give them every chance we can
to develop
their minds, so that they can
play a role
in this state, this country to
make it the
kind of place it needs to be!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: By the end of his
time as governor,
Bill Clinton was praised for his
education
reforms, many of which came out
of that committee,
and public school performance
had improved
markedly.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN: The Clintons'
argument
has always been, even if
unspoken, this sort
of idea that you get a
two-for-one deal with
them. You get two people who are
incredibly
smart and well-educated and,
again, whether
you agree with their policies or
not, are
committed to certain policies
and have been
trying to work on those all
their lives.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It was a theme
Bill Clinton
carried over to his run for the
White House.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: If we
want a president
that brings out the best in us,
then I think
the choice is clear. It's the
next president
of the United States Bill
Clinton.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But that working
relationship,
says Gergen, would take a toll
on their marriage.
DAVID GERGEN: My sense was,
they'd been so
deeply involved in their public
lives, that
they -- and there was so much
going on, they
really never settled what the
rules of the
road were when they came the
White House.
And it was volatile. It was a
volatile relationship.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How volatile
wasn't visible
to the outside world.
GWEN IFILL: With that, we turn
to syndicated
columnist Mark Shields, New York
Times columnist
David Brooks and Amy Walter of
The Cook Political
Report for a special convention
edition of
Politics Monday.
And since you're usually in the
Politics Monday
chair, Amy, I guess I will start
with you.
We sat here a week ago in
Cleveland and talked
about the chaos on the floor of
the Republican
Convention the first day. And it
seems like
we have the Democratic version
of that.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Don't
we?
That unity was the theme that we
were going
to see from the moment this
convention started.
Not surprisingly, they are
starting off the
very first day with Elizabeth
Warren, Bernie
Sanders to try to quell or at
least satisfy
this crowd here. But it's clear
that there
is a tremendous amount of
enthusiasm. You
know what I'm -- for Bernie
Sanders.
What I'm struck by was, in
Cleveland, it was
the establishment that stayed
home and wasn't
there, but the floor was pretty
united. There
were some dissidents. Here, the
establishment
is completely united for Hillary
Clinton,
but the delegates are the ones
who are not
unified.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields, as
somebody who's
watched a lot of Democratic
Conventions, what
do you make of all this?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I think Amy
put her finger
on it. This is a convention that
one didn't
expect to begin with a political
headline
that involved the term e-mails,
which is one
the Democrats would like to
avoid from now
until November, especially with
Russia in
the second paragraph.
So I think that in itself is a
little disturbing
and unsettling. And the Bernie
followers,
not surprisingly, don't follow.
They are committed.
And his endorsement, we will
find out if he
can deliver and he and Elizabeth
Warren together
are enough to make the case that
it's time
to get in line and support
Hillary Clinton.
GWEN IFILL: David Brooks, what
does it tell
you that the Bernie Sanders
supporters, followers
don't follow and that he can say
to his people
-- they sent out a text this
afternoon saying,
please don't lead a protest on
the floor.
And that clearly has continued
on. What does
it tell us about that movement?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
Well, on the one hand,
revolutions always
devour their own. The French
revolutionaries
learned this the hard way. And
so, in some
sense, it's historical. But I do
think something
new is happening here, which is
that social
media is replacing political
organizations,
and that people who are whipped
up by social
media and who have a
spontaneous, organic
grassroots organization, that
has its own
momentum, its own rules, its own
rhetorical
etiquette, and it supersedes the
stuff we're
normally used to setting here,
where people
are involved campaign to
campaign and their
ultimate loyalty to the party.
The people in the Sanders -- are
passionate,
and their ultimate loyal is to
the cause and
the ideas, and not to the party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Amy, how does
Hillary Clinton
put all this together? We
haven't even begun
the first tight in terms of the
big speakers.
What's the formula for her?
AMY WALTER: One part is to get
the people
who -- folks in this hall do
they believe
speak for them, Elizabeth Warren
and Bernie
Sanders, to come out right out
of the bat.
And I also want to go to David's
points, because
I think that is very important.
The reality,
the sort of interesting -- I
don't know if
it's ironic, if I'm using that
properly -- about
the DNC and the e-mails is that
all this is
coming at a time, we say this is
so controversial
that the DNC was sort of putting
a finger
on the scale, or more than a
finger, an actual
hand on the scale, for Hillary
Clinton.
And yet the party apparatus is
really pretty
worthless. Bernie Sanders was
able to raise
money without the party. He
didn't need access
to their donors. He didn't need
them to give
access to the media. He didn't
need them to
get access to voter files.
He was able to do that all on
his own. So,
Reince Priebus from the RNC,
Debbie Wasserman
Schultz from the DNC both
finding out that
the party in and of itself, as
an apparatus,
is really -- if it's not -- I'm
not going
to say that it's dead, but it
certainly has
not as much life in it that it
once did.
GWEN IFILL: Since last we have
been around
the table, we now have a vice
presidential
pick from Hillary Clinton, Mark
Shields, so
what can you tell us about Tim
Kaine? And
will his -- his presence
actually on the ticket
seems to have upset some Bernie
supporters
as well.
MARK SHIELDS: The hardest
assignment over
the weekend for any journalist
directed by
an editor was to find a
Republican to say
something negative about Tim
Kaine.
When you have got Lamar
Alexander, from Bill
Bolling, the former lieutenant
governor of
Virginia, to John McCain, to
Jeff Flake saying
he's a great friend, Pat Toomey,
who hasn't
endorsed -- these are people who
haven't endorsed
Donald Trump -- basically saying
what a wonderful
person Tim Kaine is, I have
never seen Hillary
Clinton look as comfortable in
any public
setting as she did on Saturday,
when she announced
Tim Kaine.
She has a partner in Tim Kaine
with which
she can be comfortable. He's
dependable. He's
unflamboyant, and he's got her
back. And he
is not going to embarrass her.
And I just
think, in that sense, it's a
choice for the
long run. It's a not choice for
the short
run. It's not just to win an
election. It's
not a -- I could see them as a
partner if,
in fact, she does win in
November.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, David Brooks,
how does
Tim Kaine change anything in
this very explosive
contest between Hillary Clinton
and Donald
Trump?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I think he
might be a key
to some sort of actual electoral
majority,
or at least a step in that
direction.
Listen, since we last met, we
have seen some
of the polls out of the
Republican Convention.
The polls are obviously volatile
at this time
of the year, but nonetheless
there was a bump
and there was a significant
bump. And so it
should send a little source of
concern, not
panic, in Democratic ranks, but
there should
definitely be concern, because
there was a
much bigger bounce than I
certainly expected.
GWEN IFILL: Well, there was one
poll that
said there was a bounce. Another
poll said...
(CROSSTALK)
DAVID BROOKS: Right. I think
there are now
a couple showing some sort of
bounce.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: And so, anyway,
something seems
to be working.
And the one thing I think the
place this election
is going to be settled is in
suburban service
worker office parks, people who
are part of
the global economy, people who
are not upset
by necessarily trade or
immigration, things
like that. And if your party
comes out and
looking like you're hostile to
the global
economy, I think you're going to
have trouble
with those people.
And Tim Kaine is very acceptable
to your basic
moderate independent who might
be put off
by Trumpianism and Sandersism.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: With the isms.
Tim Kaine also managed somehow
to change his
mind about the Trans-Pacific
trade policy
just in time to get this
nomination or to
get this selection.
Can he be expected to be that
bridge, Amy?
AMY WALTER: Well, there are a
lot of anti-TPP
signs being waved on the floor.
GWEN IFILL: Right.
AMY WALTER: And I think the
challenge, at
this exact moment, is that Tim
Kaine doesn't
excite the base as much as he
placates a lot
of Republicans and those
suburban voters.
And so I think Tim Kaine is a
longer-run pick.
We talked about why Mike Pence
picked by Donald
Trump. That was a short-term
pick to fix his
convention problem and his
Republican problem.
Hillary Clinton has a
longer-term look, which
is, I need to go get those
suburban women,
those college-educated white
voters who right
now are very skeptical about
Donald Trump.
Who's going to win those over? I
think Tim
Kaine is the reason.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, in a year,
quite frankly,
where it's been bizarre, whether
in fact you
have two candidates with
negative favorable/unfavorable
ratings, you have Bernie
Sanders, you have
Ted Cruz, you have all the
Republicans, Tim
Kaine, more than anything, in
the phrase of
Warren Harding, is a return to
normalcy.
He is just so relentlessly
normal. I just
think there was a sense of
relief in the country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
Well, we can't wait to spend
more time talking
to you all tonight and for the
rest of this
week. Mark Shields, David
Brooks, Amy Walter,
thank you all.
And we ask you again tune in
tonight starting
at 8:00 p.m. Eastern for our
special NPR/"PBS
NewsHour" coverage of the
Democratic National
Convention here in Philadelphia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now let's go back
to Hari in
Washington.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Judy.
In the day's other news: Reports
out of Japan
say a man with a knife has
killed at least
15 people and wounded 45. Police
say it happened
at a facility for the disabled
in a town outside
Tokyo. National broadcaster NHK
reports the
man was a former employee at the
facility,
and turned himself in after the
attack.
The Islamic State group claimed
responsibility
today for Sunday's suicide
bombing in Germany
that wounded 15 people. It was
the latest
in a series of attacks across
the country.
Fatima Manji of Independent
Television News
reports from Bavaria.
FATIMA MANJI: Once again, a
German city is
on high alert after a violent
attack, the
fourth in what Bavaria's
interior minister
called the country's days of
terror. Last
night, a Syrian man blew himself
up outside
a wine bar just yards away from
a music festival
where he was refused entry.
MAN (through translator):
Suddenly, there
was an extremely loud bang, more
like a loud
rattle, definitely the sound of
an explosion.
I was shaken. I didn't know what
it was. I
went back away from there.
FATIMA MANJI: The Bavarian
Interior Ministry
say a video in Arabic was on the
bomber's
phone showing him pledging
allegiance to leader
of the so-called Islamic State
group.
JOACHIM HERRMANN, Bavarian
Interior Minister
(through translator): I think
this video shows
unquestionably that the attack
was a terror
attack with an Islamist
background, that the
perpetrator had Islamist
convictions.
FATIMA MANJI: Police say he had
a bomb in
his backpack with many metal
parts that could've
killed and injured many more
people. Had he
been allowed into the crowded
event, this
could've been worse. The bomber
lived at this
shelter with other migrants and
refugees.
Officials say his application
for asylum in
Germany had been rejected
because he was a
registered refugee in Bulgaria,
and he was
due to be deported there. The
incident comes
at the end of a violent week in
Germany. On
Friday, a German teenager of
Iranian descent
shot dead nine people at a
shopping center
in Munich.
The shooter had a history of
mental illness
and may have been inspired by
the far right.
On Sunday, a 21-year-old Syrian
man wielding
a machete killed a woman in what
police believe
was a domestic dispute, all this
after an
attack in which a 17-year-old
asylum-seeker
armed with an axe injured five
people on a
train in Bavaria. He was shot
dead after the
attack, which was claimed by the
Islamic State
group.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The attacks
are fueling
renewed debate over Germany's
acceptance of
one million migrants and
refugees last year.
In Iraq, at least 14 people were
killed and
dozens were wounded, when a
suicide bomber
rammed a checkpoint. It happened
at a busy
entrance to a Shiite town some
50 miles north
of Baghdad. The Sunni-dominated
Islamic State
group claimed responsibility.
Meanwhile, a
string of bombings inside
Baghdad killed nine
more people.
Back in this country, police in
Fort Myers,
Florida, tried to piece together
what triggered
a shooting attack overnight at a
nightclub.
It left two teenagers dead and
17 wounded.
The club had been hosting a
swimsuit party
for teens. Police detained three
people, and
are looking for others, but they
do not think
it was an act of terror. The
shooting came
just over a month after the
Orlando nightclub
shooting that killed 49 people.
Basketball legend Michael Jordan
today pledged
$2 million today to help mend
relations between
police and black communities.
Half will go
to the Institute for
Community-Police Relations,
a program set up by the
International Association
of Chiefs of Police, and the
other half to
the NAACP Legal Defense Fund.
The NBA Hall
of Famer said he can no longer
stay silent
after recent police-involved
shootings and
the ambush killings of officers.
A wildfire north of Los Angeles
has now forced
the evacuation of some 10,000
homes. The blaze
broke out Friday, and has
already burned more
than 50 square miles, and killed
one person.
Flames driven by winds are
sweeping through
rugged uphill terrain. Nearly
3,000 firefighters
are on the lines, but they say
progress is
slow.
DREW SMITH, Los Angeles County
Fire Department:
This has been topography-driven.
Wind picks
up, and it moves it from south
to north at
about 7,000 acres a day. So when
the winds
surface, we have those wind
speeds that's
going to move it across the
landscape.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Making matters
worse, triple-digit
heat in recent days and years of
severe drought.
Verizon made it official today:
It's buying
Internet pioneer Yahoo! for just
over $4.8
billion. The telecom giant
bought AOL last
year, and hopes the two
acquisitions bring
new revenue streams from mobile
video and
advertising. Yahoo! was once
valued at $130
billion, but suffered a severe
loss of advertising
in recent years, and laid off
thousands of
employees.
Wall Street's week opened on a
down note,
after a four-week rally. The Dow
Jones industrial
average lost 77 points to close
at 18493.
The Nasdaq fell two points, and
the S&P 500
slipped six.
And New Zealand is embarking on
an all-out
campaign to rid itself of rats
by the year
2050. It's an effort to save
native birds
from rodents that eat their eggs
and compete
for other food. Rats are not
native to New
Zealand. Instead, they arrived
with the first
ships carrying explorers and
colonists.
Finally tonight, our Desperate
Journey series
continues.
They died horrible deaths. The
identities
of all but one of them are
unknown. And 21
of the 22 will be buried in
unmarked graves.
They are the victims of a
disaster off the
Libyan coast last week, when yet
another unseaworthy
boat, overcrowded with migrants,
became a
sad statistic to the
unscrupulous and cheap
traffickers who set them afloat.
The immediate aftermath was
witnessed and
recorded by "NewsHour" special
correspondent
Malcolm Brabant, who filmed
images in this
report that, we should warn,
some viewers
will find upsetting.
Malcolm spent two weeks on board
a rescue
ship that is jointly operated by
Doctors Without
Borders, known as MSF and SOS
Mediterranee.
Here's hi third and final report
from aboard
the ship Aquarius.
MAN (through translator):
French, Arabic,
English?
MALCOLM BRABANT: After two weeks
at sea, this
is the third rescue for the
Aquarius.
Multilingual Amani Tekle assures
them that
deliverance is at hand.
AMANI TEKLE, Coordinator: Stay
where you are.
We are here to rescue. We are
here to take
you to Italy, OK? We are a
humanitarian organization,
so we are here to help you and
take you to
Italy.
We will take everybody to the
big ship, yes?
We have enough space for
everybody. We will
not leave anybody, OK? So,
please, just stay
where you are.
MALCOLM BRABANT: As the rescuers
draw close,
initial reports of fatalities
are confirmed.
Bodies are bobbing backwards and
forwards
in the half-flooded dinghy.
The stench of fuel is
overwhelming. The fumes
could cause the survivors to
collapse and
drown. The priority is to get
them off as
quickly as possible. A second
dinghy is nearby.
It's also overcrowded. Boat
number one takes
18 people in relays back to the
mother ship.
Boat number two, on which I'm
filming, remains
on station to prevent more
casualties. In
their haste to get to safety,
the survivors
are stepping on the corpses of
people who
were alive just an hour or so
earlier.
Eventually, the last man
scrambles on to the
rescue craft. And Frenchman
Bertrand Thiebault
of SOS Mediterranee tries to
assess just how
many people have died.
During a lull, rescuing people
from the second
stranded dinghy, he tells me
what he knows.
BERTRAND THIEBAULT, SOS
Mediterranee: So there
were only men who were alive.
They were shocked
because about 15 women were dead
in the middle
of the boat because of the fuel
inhalation.
And we have seen the dead women,
and, between
the floor and them, about five
other ones
dead.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This is a new
experience
for Amani Tekle, a former
refugee from Eritrea.
AMANI TEKLE: Today was one of
the worst -- I
mean, one of my worst days,
because since
we started on the rescue
operations this year,
I didn't saw any dead body.
MALCOLM BRABANT: For about
half-an-hour, the
raft floats free like a ghost
ship, before
the rescuers attach lines and
bring it alongside
the Aquarius, where the teams
update the death
toll, 22 victims, all women,
aged between
16 and 30.
So how did this disaster come to
pass? David
from Nigeria described how the
decking on
which the people were sitting
cracked. Shards
of wood punctured the thin
rubber, and the
women were crushed in the panic.
DAVID, Survivor: The girls were
sitting down
inside the center.
Then the boys were sitting all
around the
boat. So, by the time the
plywood get boxed,
the next time, everybody was
running, scattering,
running, run to this side, run
to this side,
run to this side. Then the fuel
was not mixing
with the water. And we were
taking buckets,
start baling the water out of
the boat, baling
water out of the boat. But the
water was still
gushing inside.
DENNIS OSBI, Survivor: I think
the rushing
of the men coming forward to
where we were
standing, that came by the
women, but they
were sitting down. And if you
are coming,
you can stomp on them and you
move forward.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Eric Felice
lost his wife,
Texi (ph), in the crush. It
happened when
salvation appeared on the
horizon. But for
Texi and the other women, the
rescuers were
too late.
ERIC FELICE, Widower: As we are
coming for
the boats, literally, we see the
water through
the boats. I call out, come to
this place.
That place is OK. It's OK. I
didn't know.
At the time, we see the rescue,
I was happy.
I went to call my girl, my
woman. She's already
dead. It's finished.
MALCOLM BRABANT: What happened
to her?
ERIC FELICE: I don't know. I
don't know. I
don't know.
MALCOLM BRABANT: In the small
clinic next
door to the sanctuary, Dr. Erna
Rijnierse
prepares 22 death certificates,
which she
will give to the Italian
authorities.
DR. ERNA RIJNIERSE, Doctors
Without Borders:
People have inhaled fumes. Maybe
people have
fainted. They went under the
other ones, and
they asphyxiated. They -- they
died a horrible
death, really, really bad.
And the other thing is, in terms
of identification,
these people don't come from
places where
there's perfect dental records
or other things,
so it's going to be very, very
difficult to
give them a name and an
identity. So we have
one, one person that we know.
The other ones,
we don't, and I don't think we
will ever find
out.
MALCOLM BRABANT: There is an
organization
which has got the personnel, the
technology
and the wherewithal to be able
to help in
this situation. And that's the
International
Commission for Missing Persons,
which is based
in the Bosnian capital,
Sarajevo.
And it did a fantastic job in
identifying
the victims of the Srebrenica
massacre. Now,
the ICMP, as it's called, has
offered to help
the Italian authorities to try
to identify
missing migrants to try to
provide some resolution
for families who've lost
relatives along the
migrant trail.
But the ICMP doesn't have
sufficient money
and will find fund-raising
difficult; 36 hours
after leaving the accident site,
the Aquarius
is not far from her base at
Trapani in northwest
Sicily. The migrants, who've
been subdued
for much of the journey, now
liven up at their
first sight of Europe, for which
they have
invested and risked so much.
The reception committee includes
the Red Cross,
doctors, psychologists and
undertakers.
MAN (through translator): The
journey was
very hard to us, but thank God
we've reached
Italy. Thanks all of you people,
because you
are the people who saved our
lives. Thank
God.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The passengers
are anxious
to get their feet on dry land.
But there's
a delay. There's a dispute
between MSF and
the Italian authorities about
how to proceed.
MSF's Dutch coordinator, Ferry
Schippers,
is fuming.
FERRY SCHIPPERS, Doctors Without
Borders:
We just heard that the judge
here in Trapani
wants the dead bodies off first,
which is
very insensitive. I mean, they
are definitely
not thinking. We have people on
board who
have relatives that died on that
boat, in
that rubber boat that day. And
they will see
the body bags passing, passing
by. I don't
understand this. Believe me, I'm
very angry.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But after some
robust negotiations,
MSF wins the argument and the
living are allowed
to disembark before the dead.
One of the first to go, newly
widowed Eric
Felice .
The survivors are given a
cursory health check
by the Italians before going
ashore. And then,
as sensitively as possible, the
22 victims
are carried from the temporary
mortuary on
the ship's front deck.
They left Africa with heady
dreams of prosperity
in Europe. But the sea condemned
them to an
unmarked grave and a single red
rose.
FERRY SCHIPPERS: We're going to
throw this
flower in the water out of
respect for the
people who died in the boat.
With these flowers,
we sent them goodbye. And let's
hope this
people who died in the boat.
With these flowers,
we sent them goodbye. And let's
hope this
will stop.
DR. ERNA RIJNIERSE: We are not
dealing with
numbers. We are talking about
human beings,
people like you, like me, and
everybody has
their own story.
And in my humble experience,
nobody runs away
from home, nobody leaves
everything they know
behind because it's such a good
place to be.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The Aquarius is
due to return
to sea tomorrow.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Sicily.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You can watch
all of Malcolm
Brabant's reports from the
Mediterranean,
plus more stories in our
Desperate Journey
series on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
Also online right now: Our
coverage of all
things convention-related
continues. Stream
our special prime-time coverage
and follow
along on our live blog, and
check out our
columnists today who discuss
what and who
the Democratic Party should
represent. Find
all that and more on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's it from Washington.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And from here in
Philadelphia,
that's the "NewsHour" for now.
But stay with us. We will be
right back here
at 8:00 p.m. Eastern for live
special coverage
of the Democratic National
Convention.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and see you soon.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and see you soon.